---
layout:     post
title:      "Breath: The Source Of Our Growth"
subtitle:   "Through the breath, our muscles can recover energy"
date:       2017-07-04 11:21:00
author:     "Hailrend"
header-img: "img/breath.jpg"
keywords:	"Breath,breath in workout, sports and breathing,breathe in fitness"
---
<p>
<b>	Breath.</b> Such a simple thing, that we <i>automatically</i> do every second of our lives, but 
	at the same time the first element that we forget during our trainings. You could think 
 	that this basic function for human kind must be difficult to be performed in a bad way... 
 	Well, you would be wrong, extremely wrong. It is <b>really difficult</b> to breath in the <i>correct way</i> 
 	while working out. As I hope you all know, each type of exercise is composed by two different movements:
 	the eccentric phase and the concentric phase. I will explain the function of these two phases in a coming article,
 	but breath is fundamental in both of these. In fact, also breathing is composed by 2 moments, inhaling and exhaling.
 	So, you have to <b>inhale</b> in the <i>eccentric</i> phase of the exercise and <b>exhale</b> in the <i>concentric</i> part of it.
 	This general rule is extremely important because it allows us to get better in our workouts, and even if it will be a difficult thing to do 
 	in the right way during the first months, learning to breath from the beginning of our training paths is a farsighted behaviour, that will let us save time in the future,
 	when we will approach different and harder exercises. 
</p>
<p>
 	The chemical explanation of this phenomenon is that our muscles need oxygen to work and to use all of their potential. In order to achieve this, 
 	we need to let air get into our muscles, or we won't be able to to the next sets.
 	A further point is <b>how to breath</b>. Do we have to breath through our mouth or through our nose? Well, generally speaking it is a good habit to breath through our nose,<i> or at least to inhale through it,</i> because it was made
 	for that and because it has the functions to protect our body from the <b>toxic</b> elements that air <i>-especially if you live in popolated cities or near a busy street-</i> contains. <br>
 	On the other hand, different sports require different types of breathing, for this purpose you can find an article that explains this topic hereafter.
</p>
<p>
 	As last time, if any of you would like to deepen this topic, I leave you some more scientific articles from known fitness headboards:
 	<li> <a href="https://greatist.com/fitness/how-breathe-every-type-exercise"><i class="fa fa-link" aria-hidden="true"> Breathing in each type of sport</i></a></li>
	<li> <a href="https://www.bodybuilding.com/fun/how-to-breathe-when-working-out-and-running.html"><i class="fa fa-link" aria-hidden="true"> Breath in workouts</i></a></li>
</p>	